[Music]
if you always do good work from your
standards whether you're in a project
that fails or succeeds you can live with
that but if you're doing things that on
other people's criteria standards and
you fail you feel terrible there's
nothing worse than failing on somebody
else's idea fail on your idea or don't
succeed on your idea it hurts so much
less you go well I did my best I tried I
had a good time I at least this happen
you could look at the glass half-full
you know you can do all these wonderful
things if it's yours
Shh everyone welcome to impact theory
today's guest is one of the most iconic
actors to ever grace the silver screen
one of the youngest leading actors ever
nominated for an Oscar he's received an
Emmy two Academy Award nominations and
six Golden Globe nominee one win for
Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and
out of all the actors they could have
chosen variety honored him with their
inaugural cinema icon award at the
Cannes Film Festival and given his
storied career it is no wonder a
triple-threat who has had a top-ten song
appeared on Broadway in Smash TV shows
and era-defining films he has had one of
the most lauded and enduring careers of
any actor in history he starred in two
of the most successful films of the 70s
including grease which is the top
grossing live-action musical of all time
and he is so compelling on-screen that
culture literally changes in the wake of
his movements his career launching dance
moves in the big-screen phenomenon
Saturday Night Fever tripled the sales
of white suits and his starring role in
the hit film urban cowboy inspired a
country music craze that swept the
nation and that is I assure you just the
tip of a very large body of work that
spans decades and includes some of the
most memorable films ever made
including seminal works like Pulp
Fiction blowout the Thin Red Line get
Shorty primary colors faceoff Broken
Arrow and dozens more his list of
credits reads like a list of the
all-time great films across most every
single genre so please help me in
welcoming the star of fanatic which is
now available on VOD the high school
dropout who turned a deep passion for
performance into one of the most
astonishing careers in the history of
cinema the living legend John Travolta
[Applause]
Wow welcome to the show Tommy Boy well
what an introduction what a career jeez
man I just I thought I want to meet that
guy that was beautiful thank you very
much
and thank everybody who's here visiting
for this show today the interesting
thing if I hadn't just spent the last 30
minutes with you I would think that that
was just sort of false humility but you
really do carry yourself like you don't
realize you're John Travolta which is
amazing it's beautiful and is actually
really wonderful to see and has got me
in trouble being that low-key about it
yeah because you know I'm from a
working-class family and we are humbled
by nature and love the the good things
that we succeed in in life however you
just become more of who you are when you
get them because you can't forget your
beginnings so I I literally forget any
of that you know if I meet someone new I
don't think that they're clocking or
registering that I'm anyone different
than the guy they just met so your your
perception that is actually pretty
correct yeah it's uh it is a fascinating
thing so for Lisa and I my wife while on
a scale so much smaller than yours we
had a similar transition right so come
from a working class family that
teetered between blue-collar and
white-collar and then generated real
wealth like the kind of wealth that
changes my not only my life with my
entire family's life of course and you
look at that and your whole world
theoretically is different but at the
same time money doesn't like it doesn't
change how you feel about yourself right
and that's the thing that I found so
interesting in my own journey and
watching you I'll even go farther and
say the fame does not seem to have
changed how you feel about yourself and
whenever you talk you talk so much about
the art what what has Fame been like how
have you managed to keep art as the true
north born into that because my mother
was a
I'm a coach she was a director she was
an English teacher a speech teacher and
she had a high integrity about theatre
and all of the arts so all of us they
got interested in her interest were held
to a very high criteria of performance
so performance mattered not Fame not
money how well did you do at something
is what mattered to her and my father
who was an excellent athlete it was a
semi pro athlete ins basketball baseball
football and so they were more about
achievement not so much about
superficial things and the interesting
thing is that when you are honorable to
achievement the wealth and that kind of
thing comes automatically you don't have
to it's when you invert that when
someone wants wealth or if they once
want Fame it's harder for that to happen
because it's not based on anything that
has a bean exchange to it if you're good
at senna find that being exchange well
meaning that that if i make something
that's of high quality you'll give me
more beans for it's a things got its
it's a it's a you know it's just an
old-fashioned expression but it's what's
the quality of what you're having worth
if you know if I make this cup really
well
you'll pay maybe a little more for it
than if I do a poor job of it so your
exchange has to be at a higher level and
then it automatically comes but it's not
what you're going for is it might in my
opinion now people could have done it
you know I always say if you want to be
wealthy on just money get into the money
business investments banking you know
but if you're in the arts I would do it
for art's sake first and then hopefully
others will follow but not make it a
prerequisite but just keep doing the
right thing and the good thing it'll
happen I agree with that so aggressively
so I chase money for nearly a decade
that was like I woke up every day just
thinking about getting rich I want to
get rich and that's it and the punchline
of that was I ended up being sort of
emotionally bankrupt and just really sad
and like not having fun too did not
enjoy my life when I slightest and so I
went to my wife and I said look I know I
promised I would
you rich and I will but I'm gonna need
more time because I need to do something
that makes me feel Elisha sure and that
was a that was like eye opening actually
living the cliche of money can't buy
happiness
and sort of finding myself in that
conundrum and then going back to what
you're saying about the bean exchange
like so I'm sure you're hyper aware of
this one your Instagram game is pretty
strong and then having a daughter who's
like prime Instagram age yes so many
kids now reach out to me and they they
aren't even asking me how I became
successful as an entrepreneur they want
to know how I built my following and I'm
like dude let me tell you I built my
following by putting my head down for 20
years and making a better cup like
learning how to do something that
intrinsically has value right and when I
look at your performances dude your your
career is so [__] insane dude and the
reason it's insane is you've never
phoned a performance in in like how long
have you been acting oh I mean it's like
crazy ideas as I was 12 years old but
but you know i would say professionally
since I was 16 so it's been quite a
while but you're 100% correct because I
I I always behave as though my my
performance that I'm doing is is not
only the best role I've ever had but
that may be the last role and even
though I don't mean that literally I
have to think in that in that frame of
mind just so I do my best work do you
know and I take I take every role as
seriously as the next so if I'm doing a
light comedy I make sure that I'm as
invested in that as I am a very
well-written drama let's say it's
interesting so I came in so when I saw
Pulp Fiction
I was at film school so I was studying
film when that landed and I mean Jesus
dude like that blew up the film school
like people were just freaking out but I
grew up on you and like the look who's
talking era and then my mom who is
sitting literally right there which
makes it so much more fun for me as a
psychopath for grease yes I have I have
seen that many many times so it was so
interesting to sort of as I grew I got
to dip into your films in different time
periods where the tonality of that film
matched where
I was as a human so like seeing Saturday
Night Fever which is [__] gritty and
I think people forget how intense that
movie really is how do you go about the
selection process how have you thought
about it maybe as it changes over the
the length of the career well just as a
global perspective on choices
I've never planned the end result of
what I was going to do for instance I
never III didn't do Saturday Night Fever
thinking that I would start trends do
you know or urban cowboy knowing that I
would start a trend you do it because
it's a good piece of work you love it
you're gonna do the best job you can
you're going to invest in research
you're gonna drill and practice and get
it right and then whatever results it is
I mean senator fever for instance I
thought was a little art film the only
film I ever did that I felt had any
absolute commercial viability was grease
because I had done the Broadway show and
I saw the success with my own eyes and I
thought if we even execute this halfway
as good as we did on Broadway and on the
road were were in high cotton but that's
the only film the others who knows what
I thought Pulp Fiction was gonna be
Reservoir Dogs
I thought Saturday Night Fever was gonna
be Mean Streets honestly so I I I didn't
predict that all I did was what we
started this conversation with
guaranteeing good work as best I could
now there's some of it that's out of
your control you have a director you
have a writer you have you have
designers on the movie that could alter
your intent but you are responsible for
your aspect of it and as much you know
cheerleading as you can with all the
other departments but you must always
show up whether the end result is a good
one or not as good going full-throttle
and delivering the best product you can
and otherwise don't do it don't do it
you know it's it's not about one foot on
the shore and one foot on a boat you
commit just like today I drove you're
you're beautiful true and they are
beautiful
gorgeous people but I Jersey because I
wanted the lighting right for this
interview but that's part of my
responsibility too too so I don't have
any attention on it I can talk to you
Tommy Boy
directly without wondering whether it's
boys that I don't know about that this
doesn't feel right but I can be here
with you and and and have my attention
not on other things yeah so talk to me
about work ethic man your work ethic
seems and saying hearing some of the
preparation that you did for like
Saturday Night Fever which of course I
had to rewatch and the dancing in that
is crazy man you look like you're ready
for the Olympics
it is decide and let me give let me give
another actor a bit of the credit for
that spirit because when I was starting
out were Robert De Niro was with the
Scorsese doing very in-depth or you know
Raging Bull and and Mean Streets and
that whole early lineup of films that
you know when he did in New York New
York we heard he practiced a year on the
saxophone
we heard he you know became a real
fighter and all this and then it
suddenly gave permission if you will for
us younger actors to commit at a new
level not that we weren't doing that
before
but it up the game for everybody so when
I worked with him in the killing season
I said I got it
I flew it a serbian bosnian did my
research to read soldiers and and I came
back with a stack of research that fills
this room with recordings and to deliver
an authentic performance because I
thought well here's I'm gonna do a movie
with a guy that that believes in that so
there was an important moment where we
were given permission there's a lot of
young actors to to go the distance
because you had Pitino DeNiro going in
the distance differently then earlier
actors had other than let's say Marlon
Brando who always went but it's even no
question how do you manage to sustain
that over a career like you do see
people that they can do it once or twice
but man too like even now with fanatic
it's so clear how much time and energy
you put into that character the
mannerisms they're just really embodying
it and I think people be shocked by the
physical transformations how do you why
why are you so hungry like why do you
keep doing this at this level because at
the end of the day you know that's what
you you have as evidence of a life
well-lived a contribution to people you
know you you know if let's say I have 70
movies and each one delivers a kind of
joy to a certain audience the collage or
the mosaic of your career has this
blanketed effect that suddenly you can
go away with pride that you it was a job
well done and you you maybe made a
difference in a lot of people's lives
you know when you see young fans with a
tattoo of Danny Zuko or Vincent Vega on
their arm and you and you say this
somewhere I made a difference in their
life where they were was someone glad
that you were alive were you valuable to
someone by being here and you you want
to be valuable you know otherwise you're
kind of wasting your time if you don't
find your niche to be valuable to
something I think you really we're like
that the love the sort of raw connection
to the art on your sleeve in a way that
I find is [__] enthralling like even
now like I can see in your eyes like you
were really hit by what you were just
saying how do you connect with that is
that just you've always just been
connected or have you found through
acting a way to like open yourself to
that to draw in that well it's a fair
question but I believe that because of
my family's commitment to the purity of
the Arts we always we just didn't ever
want to be caught not being professional
and not being good at what we were doing
ever that was more of a shame
to our group as a family unit than it
was anything else
even in fooling around improvising at
home or creating humorous skits or skits
and you know you you you either own that
idea or you don't and we just had to
that was our survival mechanism was to
be as good as we could at what we were
doing you know or don't do it there's a
side to you though that it's gonna be
hard to put into words what I'm gonna
try and then I will get to a question at
the end of this bear with sugar
great so seeing you on Oprah I've seen
enough Oprah to get a sense of like
where she is with you and she was so
effusive with how much she loved you and
just felt like there was something
special and she had a connection to you
countless actors have said very similar
things that that you lift the set up
that that you have this playfulness the
spirit about you dude 40-plus years in
the industry
I literally expect you to be cynical and
so the fact that you aren't I don't buy
is accidental so I'm curious like what
you've done how you've stayed you've had
ups you've had downs in your life
outside of this you've had loss like
heartbreaking loss and yet literally
sitting across from you where I'd like
to think you couldn't fake me out I can
feel the like you actually love what you
do and and I mean that a big way you the
way you were you were kind when you were
changing the lighting you were [__]
up like holding signs and saying like is
this working it's not like you were just
telling other people to do it like
there's a you're you're involved in your
own life I don't know there's a joy of
work there's a joy of creating and
that's free whether you write or play
music or act that's free the joy and you
can splurge on that joy everybody can
you just have to give yourself
permission
it's like Wizard of Oz you know you
click your heels you always can go home
well you can always create something you
know if we were if it was just the two
of us and you know we finished talking
and I said you know let's draw some
pictures man or let's you know let's
make a little movie or you know we could
find something to do that might heighten
the
awareness of being alive cynicism is
always going to try to get you and it's
your job to navigate around that
cynicism how because they're like
nipping dogs at your feet they're not
important
cynicism is valueless in my book I have
no time for it I will be patient with it
to a degree and then I have no patience
for it and I would love for you to have
actually witnessed me on phones trying
to make something happen and eliminate
all the naysayers on the foot let's say
seven well you know this from being in
business seven people are on the on the
phone and three of them are lawyers and
two of them are manners and through more
agents and I can like radar who are the
people that are not for this and I
detected whatever the person's name is
could you please remove yourself from
this phone conversation because if you
stay on we're not going to make this
deal you get down to the people that
want the show to go on the road you got
a deal you have to get rid of the people
who don't want to play the same game as
you do dude go go harder on that so one
of the number one questions I get asked
is okay so in in sort of my space
whatever that is you hear a lot that
you're the average of the five people
you spend the most time with okay so you
say that enough to I actually really
believe I also think it extends to ideas
but you get people saying okay but
there's people in my life they're not
lucky enough that it's an attorney or
and a manager or somebody it's their mom
it's their cousin it's whatever their
boss their manager and they have that
person in their life and they can't just
get rid of them
do you have methods for dealing with yes
I handle them and you have to go if you
love brother or sister mother father
friend a business associate whatever
degree you are committed to them and you
don't want to do that they're different
than just a professional person that's
assumed a beingness in your group then
it's easy to eliminate if they're not
wanting you to survive but if you have
people that you deeply love and you
can't feel comfortable about that you
find a way in its artful you have to
find a way of handling each of them
so everybody goes away feeling happy and
not antagonized about your displeasure
with them so you know I could make up
examples but you know if you have
someone who you know let's say I'm
creating this idea but some parent that
doesn't want their kid to play violin
okay and their antagonist ik you know
you've got to be an accountant you've
got to be an account you go okay dad I
love you but if I become an accountant
I'm becoming what you want me to be and
I have a good chance of having a not so
happy life even if I fail at being a
violinist at least I failed on my own
terms
and I failed doing something I loved so
you got to let up on me dad or brother
or sister or mother whoever that
character is that has a counter
intention to you you have to get with
them and get real and say look it's my
life it's not your life and this is how
I need to do it you see so there's ways
of Henle you know I gave the first
example I gave you as a high-end example
because you're trying to close a deal
mmm but there's many examples whether
someone wants to be a baseball player
but their parents want them to be a
football player it doesn't even matter
if it's of the wrong sport you see it's
not your sport mmm you know and I've
watched people do this my whole life
I've watched them you know yeah wow you
got to be a professional football player
for six months why didn't that work out
because I never liked I wanted to be a
baseball parent well what what happened
they said well my dad wanted me to
become a football player and I was
really going on his wishes there you go
hmm so if you had to redo history you'd
say what I have told dad at that time
look you know you I'm just enjoying this
more than that can you let up on me so
there's any all these interesting
increments of how you give yourself
permission and navigate around people
that are counter your intentions you
know and then sometimes it does
matter sometimes you go I don't really
care which way I do this or that and you
acquiesced to just keeping peace and and
good good roads good will and and it
doesn't matter so much other times it
matters a lot because it's your personal
destiny speaking of people being
contrary to your wishes
was anybody weird about you dropping out
of high school to pursue acting only my
dad for a minute and then when he saw
that I could make a living at it he let
it go like a hot potato really all he
cared about was that I could survive in
life and he wasn't sure without a
diploma that I could and I was saying in
my mind I was singing it I'm not a
scholar so therefore I'm gonna do
luggage handling at LaGuardia or I'm
gonna become what I do best acts sing
and dance
so dad let me get I'm 16 I'm chomping at
the bit let me out of the stable my
mother she had no problems she said let
him go
thank God he's got a target he what he
wants to achieve he's already got a
manager an agent let him go you know and
finally I made a deal with him and I
said well again keeping the peace I said
what if I just took the year off and and
possibly even did home school so I
didn't miss any you know credit he said
yeah that lasted about a month you know
I send in my assignment you know and
then I started making money and then he
started to see how well I could do so he
was more you know he's six kids working
class he wanted to make sure I was gonna
be okay so it was much more pragmatic
mine was much more no I want to put my
bets on my abilities that you guys have
let me so beautifully have and nurtured
since I was born you know you know my
parents would sit there you know in
those days everybody smoked he had a
cigar my mother have a cigarette glass
of wine and they would watch me for
three hours lip sync records and
improvise and imitate people and
whatever and they would look he's
something as an ebow you know he look at
can you believe how
they made me feel like I was God's gift
to the arts so it's like really dad you
you encouraged all this love of my
performing and now I want to do it he
just wanted me to be protected by a
diploma I don't know how much that the
Bono is gonna protect me you know when
you're auditioning for a Terrence Malick
film right you seem to have done okay
without it yeah the jury's in it worked
out you embody characters with swagger
so well it's crazy
from obviously Saturday Night Fever to
grease but even like Vincent Vega and
Pulp Fiction or in get shorty what were
you like when you left high school did
you have a swagger like that because
there is there are people that have an
it factor and I really think that is
it's the hardest thing to talk about and
maybe the most important thing in
somebody when you're thinking about
casting them did you have that were you
able to convey it or did you step in to
meet people in a character well there's
a few angles that you're approaching
there so the first one I'll address with
the only swagger I ever had as a as a
child and as a teenagers that I'd like
to dress well and that was unusual
meaning I wanted to look like a Beatle I
wanted to look like George Chakiris and
West Side Story
I wanted to look like Warren Beatty in
Bonnie and Clyde so I would save up very
little money that I had to look pretty
Swift but I it wasn't necessarily like I
was acting that way I just like tell
that elysian looked you see now as far
as the swagger my generation was at the
tail end of the beginning of what cool
was you had Marlon Brando James Dean
Paul Newman
Warren Beatty creating cool these
illusions the Beatles were those they
were cool so as a child you're absorbing
what you think cool is it that
necessarily you're behaving like them
but you're registering somewhere what
cool might be so you get a role like
Danny Zuko in Greece and you're gonna
apply all that whether you are that or
not no I'm not but I grew up with a
family of artists so I can apply it very
easily when I observed in and what was
seemingly the the effect of what cool
was so it's an affectation within the
confines of a character if that makes
sense just like with the fanatic he's
anything but cool you see because I
understand that character so I'm gonna
be honorable to the attributes of that
character only I don't cross
collateralize characters you have an
obligation to be that guy if it includes
cool like let's say certain a fever
Greece Pope fiction or be or get shorty
it includes cool but that doesn't mean
every character it just happened to be
that those needed that
do you see yeah definitely you've said
that the characters that come closest to
you are from phenomenon or Michael and
you specifically said it's it's some of
the things that they say and stand for
what are those things that they say in
sampling phenomenon the his emotional
life is very much like much you know I
don't want to break anyone's heart I
believe in not doing anything that
someone else can can't handle
very easily you know if in the loved
world of loving your children loving
your wife loving your friends I am
respectful of the effect I have on them
like that character was respectful of
the effect that you know separate from
business this is personal okay business
I'm much different about but her
personal
I I just some degree and it's hurt me
warned my heart on my sleeve but I won't
take it off my sleeve I don't believe in
that so there's that and as far as just
behavior let's say the character and
look who's talking
it was kind of like how I talk and how I
might him err and that kind of thing so
there's only a few roles that have
actually felt that were kind of like me
but the rest is just just my obligation
to the attributes of that character what
is one of your defining characteristics
like in your own mind then thing maybe
you're most proud of or that you think
is the the core of who you really are
probably that I deeply care at an
unusual level for another human being
and I have the ability to take
responsibility for them completely even
if they're not able to take
responsibility for themselves and not
that I'm not artful about who I choose
to do that with but I do have an uncanny
ability to look at every angle to make
sure something is completely taken care
of and I've had moments where people
have done that for me but I think that's
probably what I my stable concept of
myself is that I I'm willing to to the
greatest degree I'm capable of take
responsibility for others it's very
interesting it triggers the notions in
my mind about empathy and what makes
humans so uniquely capable of the level
of empathy that we have and then sort of
playing that out in my mind about what
makes you such a great actor the ability
to sort of understand where they're
coming from relate to them feel
connected to them is that sort of all
part and parcel of I think so and even
when I'm playing an evil character like
I did in Broken Arrow or aspects of Pulp
Fiction or well you name it there must
be a dozen guys that I played that that
have that aspect to them I don't have to
even like those characters I just have
to like playing them I have to be an
by them so if I think I can get a kick
out of playing a bad guy and you'll find
it humorous and insightful to and
entertained by it then I will gravitate
toward it so sometimes I you know
there's a dichotomy there where my
empathy doesn't go for the evil and a
person but goes for what
what's entertaining about their evil you
know what makes me laugh about their
evil face off you know it was so much
fun because those carry the evil part
that both Nick and I shared was
hilarious at the same time it was evil
you know see you don't get the the
impact on the audience doesn't isn't
appalled by you as much as they're
entertained by you and I think it's
important to balance the impact of an
evil character when you're doing that
you know good guys are good guys unless
they're falsely good it's more of a
pretense of some sort I want to go back
to what you were saying about taking
responsibility for people so recently
heard an interview with your daughter
who is also an actor
late teens if I'm not mistaken teen now
19 and when asked about you and if you
ever embarrass her or anything like that
she was effusive in her praise of you
like it's very clear that you guys have
a phenomenal relationship normally a
child at that age is really trying to
distance themselves from their parents
Rebell back a little bit but she really
seemed like no no I'm like this has been
wonderful yeah how have you accomplished
that what are some values that you carry
into that dynamic well look I'd love to
take a lot of credit for Ella and Ben
but I can't because I think truly they
are innately incredibly wonderful human
beings and whether Kelly and I set
examples here there that's fine or
whether the people that were around her
set good examples possibly but their
innate quality
human being is their quality as a human
being and she's just a sterling human
being as has been incredibly understand
incredibly tolerant patient ethical and
gorgeous people you know they're there
I'm so proud of them you know and I
really give them the credit more than I
give myself anything you know I'm there
and I'm take full responsibility for
them but they're responsible for their
own personalities you know I mean I'm
sure your mama she's sitting there might
agree that my mom would violently
disagree with you I'm telling you right
now that woman is like taking credit for
anything I've ever done she's like I
raised you right
and in our defense like I actually do
come at it that way because I think that
you know going back to Ella I think that
it's very different to be a good person
than to have a few civ praise for your
father so you're not a neutral force in
her life so while I'm happy to grant
that she is just she is just a wonderful
person oh if I had to give myself any
credit for her gorgeous being it would
be my patience tolerance and
understanding of both my children as
children I've never hit them I've never
I've never made them feel bad and salted
them nothing never nullified him ever I
just treat them like my parents treated
me which was with an enormous heart
enormous tolerance and normals and
enormous patience and trust me they're
nothing like I was I was something to be
you know dealt with because I was I was
demanding you know and I was everything
I am now but in a little body and you
see me running around here fixing the
lighting well imagine what my parents
went through you know at with the little
body telling and orchestrating what
they're gonna do and how much so do you
think that's helped you like there's so
in my life the lesson I had to learn was
to toughen up
I grow very soft I I would get hit in
the leg with a soccer ball now grow up
into comas is cold but I would cry and
walk off the field and nobody ever said
hey get the [__] back on the field or
like paying something I leaned in to
like and I get it and I know when people
hear that they're like oh you should
never say that but literally I couldn't
be successful until I face that stuff
and could push through pain and learn to
deal with it all understand so I'm gonna
guess that one to say on a phone call
I'm gonna need you to excuse yourself
from this phone call no matter no matter
how much control you have in the
relationship
dude you you're an empathetic person
like everything about you exudes empathy
so I know you know what that feels like
even if he's being a dick even if he is
the problem being willing to say you
have to get off the phone is powerful so
while I'm sure it may have been at times
troubling for your parents do you think
that's been useful as a tool in your
arsenal yes because one should never
confuse kindness with weakness ever
because just because a person's kind or
wonderful or loving or patient or
telling it doesn't mean their cup not
runneth over at the right time didn't
when my cup runneth over especially when
it's so clearly cut that what I'm trying
to do is keep a boat floating and
they're trying to sink it I have no
tolerance for that so that's what I'm
talking about is more about that
subtlety is that I'm all that and a bag
of chips when it comes to empathy and
tolerance and patience but if you are
trying to bring to sink a boat that has
a lot of people that have good
intentions and of our good or our of
good will and now you're trying to take
that away from all of them I will fight
you on it you see because you're not
doing the survival thing for that
particular group so you can keep your
sentient if you will concepts about
yourself but at the same time you have
to be strong enough to otherwise you
will fold you can't do this like a a
bull in a china shop that doesn't work
either you
you can't just be unthinking about every
movie wait you have to you don't pull
those moves of extremity until you see
the real intent of something that
someone's really trying to destroy
something and you have every right to
handle that I think what do you hope
your daughter learns from your career
are there certain missteps that you'll
point her to and say hey here's how to
better handle this there's certain
things you did that set you up for
wonderful things and say hey make sure
you do this
I've only instilled one idea always
commit to your work at a deep level and
do all the homework and research that
you need to do to portray a great role
don't do material you have a luxury
you're not where I was you don't have to
do material that's not up to your
abilities you know I've had to do jobs
sometimes where I had to rise above the
material in order to make it a good
performance but my goal was still to
make it a good performance she may not
have to do that so she could be
discerning and luxurious about what she
chooses and you know if you always do
good work from your standards whether
you're in a project that fails or
succeeds you can live with that but if
you're doing things that on other
people's criteria standards and you fail
you feel terrible there's nothing worse
than failing on somebody else's idea
fail on your idea or don't succeed on
your idea it hurts so much less you go
well I did my best I tried I had a good
time I at least this happen you could
look at the glass half-full you know you
can do all these wonderful things if
it's yours but man you you start playing
someone else's chess game and you feel
terrible when I said oh man what I
shouldn't have done that I shouldn't
have let them influence me at that level
when things get hard for you when you're
having one of the difficult times when
you're trying to get in shape when
you're learning the dance four moves for
Saturday Night Fever when you're doing
something us really hearts really taxing
what do you do mentally to stay focused
stay strong and get through it the
global view of the end product
what's your valuable final product on
anything keeps you going you know what's
the end result I'm gonna get this
routine I'm gonna get that accent down
I'm going to under the behavior of that
character and your your endgame keeps
you going because you you have a goal
you've accomplished some pretty
extraordinary things outside of
filmmaking it's very interesting when
you were talking just now I was thinking
about you know one of the ways I know
that you've dealt with challenging times
in your career anyway has been to live
life as you said to just go and embrace
take adventurers and go do other things
because life is an art you can't forget
that life is an art this is why I Oprah
and I connected immediately because you
know we did a whole episode one time on
enlightening people that didn't have
money on how they can live art or if I
said very easy I said can the average
fellow go to Walmart and afford it let's
take your tray yes it might be three
dollars can you afford a cup instead of
a paper cup might be a dollar sorry now
can you put your favorite coffee on that
cup can you can you go to a market or
somebody can get a nice blueberry muffin
can you make that look pretty put a
flower on that tray now can you go give
it to your husband or your wife they'll
think they're at the fire at the Four
Seasons getting room service and you
have minimum money it's how you approach
it you know it's the art of life if you
want to look a certain way
it doesn't take money I remember I had a
couple of friends that were in a bind
they needed a suit for a wedding they
didn't have one I said let's go to
Walmart I said I can get you a suit for
$46 it oh it's gonna look great on you
and it did
because the designer of the Walmart
thing had a better tailoring than some
of the top designers and everybody
complimented about the wedding man yeah
you look great you look great
never told them it was from Walmart $46
but he upstaged everybody with all their
designer suits I did that with my
sisters once I never told I wasn't used
to buying them expensive clothes I went
tomorrow bought a cocktail dress for one
sister and a kind of other type of
cocktail where they wore them out they
loved them so much and I never told them
how much they cost $19 each and I never
told them where I got it from because I
did not want it to influence them but I
wanted to show that you can experience
life if you're clever with money and
still be as artful it's interesting I'm
so in agreement with you and I think
that people get hung up on the money and
don't realize what you're saying about
doing it artfully one thing that I found
really interesting and researching you
specifically for fanatic is you were
talking a lot about that so fanatic the
main character that you play is an
obsessed fan and you said to play an
obsessed fan I need only think about how
I have been obsessed yes with other
people in my own life and there's
something about your ability to be
inspired by other people who are some
people that have really inspired you
especially if it's somebody that we
might have heard of and how do you
capture that and not have like a
professional jealousy about it
well my earlier inspirations were for
instance Jimmy Cagney and I was 5 years
old watching Yankee Doodle Dandy and he
just rocked my world you know to the
degree where my mother if she pretended
Jimmy Cagney was on the phone she'd get
me to do anything
and I bought it because we're show
business family my sister was on
Broadway with doing the Broadway tour
with Ethel Merman and gypsy it's like my
mother could very well know Jimmy Cagney
no she didn't so what I'm saying is that
that affected me the Beatles affected me
deeply the certain movies I grew up with
that La Strada Fellini's La Strada
where Giulietta Masina 's character
affected me deeply because she died of a
broken heart and I couldn't I couldn't
comprehend that someone could die from
something non-physical and I decided
then at four or five that I'd never want
to break someone's heart you know those
are the kinds of impacts so from an
early age you know watching Gene Kelly
in American Paris you know watching West
Side Story all these films that had
great impact you're it's you collect
these inspirations and you certainly
stand on their shoulders and then you
perform with all of them in you to sir
greater or lesser degree you have to be
a fan you won't make it if you're not a
fan I will put money on any great artist
or great ballplayer or great business
person had a secret obsession with
someone they were admiring in that
profession and just wanted to do them to
love them they would love them they'd be
entranced by everything they they they
did and and you know but it's limited in
your ability to express it unless you're
a girl that watching the Beatle and
you're screaming nobody was inhibited
then but but for most average guys that
say they would have lead lives of quiet
desperation over their admiration of
Mickey Mantle or you know or Jimmy
Cagney I was in a theater family so I
could express a little more freely but
you have to be a fan in order to I think
have the the jolt of life in you too
expand on it and give to others what
they gave to you dude that to me is one
of the things that has served me so well
in my life is I can let in I can allow
myself to be and there's something too I
think people you said it really well
when you talk about guys and then quiet
desperation over Mickey Mantle you know
in today's language a rod or somebody
like that you know it's like they they
want to say something they want to have
that connection and I think it speaks to
why fandom has become such a thing it's
it's people having this relationship
with something that allows them to sink
into like you said the people who get
the tattoos right you affected them in
some way but what's interesting is some
people then really make it a part of who
they are so that they can continually
get that in absolutely I find that
really interesting they need to to keep
it going
mm-hmm yeah it's 100 percent accurate
the grease and the frying-pan
that that is a really interesting thing
and I think if when people can open up
and when I look at the trajectory of
your career and I think this is somebody
who has continually kept the grease in
the frying pan whether it was hey I've
had enough of acting for the moment I'm
gonna go get my pilot's license right
yes and and that I find so interesting
and how much is having multiple passions
a protection emotionally again something
going wrong and acting which is
traditionally I have a hypothesis I'll
ask it another way yeah my hypothesis is
this your career is the extraordinary
thing that it is precisely because you
have a stable home life and you have a
passion for flying so you have these
other things that would fulfill you and
so there's you're never walking into a
situation with any air of desperation
absolutely you have to balance the
playing field within your own thing so
when I was on Broadway and I wasn't
enjoying the experience my second year
and I was I was done with doing that
same show ever and I was kind of
depressed over it having a brochure
about a airplane that I could build got
me through that year you see I actually
built the airplane no I wanted to my
mother called it a flying coffin
I said well that's not your spirit you
know cuz she'd always love she loved
flying each other that but she didn't
want me to build my own flying which I
understand but it got me through even
though I didn't do it it got me through
that year because I was in the doldrums
and he gave me something to dream about
this feels important to dream about
something to do I wore that brochure out
just imagining being in it as I'm flying
it just got me through so yeah that
that's always been a a you know when I
did got my jet license it was because I
had been in four months or five months
on blow out in the dead of winter in
Philadelphia and it was very brutal and
I needed a break and an officer and
gentleman was written for me by the same
guy who had done boy in the plastic
bubble and I turned it down twice
because if I can't be there at the level
we've discussed earlier I don't you know
I don't do one step on the shore and one
step on a boat so I said I would be in a
maybe I'm not doing it I'd rather go
enjoy life learn how to fly in this jet
and accomplish something that way get a
little bit of respite from the stress of
of filming and by the time I came back
which was urban cowboy I was revitalized
it was it was great so as you look
forward I mean look you've had an insane
career you still look fantastic
even up close man I'm telling you like
it's crazy I actually want to punch you
right in your intro is like [__] this
guy like sings dances acts has a crazy
career obviously at this point you never
have to work again
so when you think about that you've got
so much you know juice left in the tank
like it's pretty clear like you're
showing up to your latest film [__]
on fire doing your thing
what what's it about like what do you
want to achieve is there a genre you
want to tackle is there just no just
more keep doing it more very I guess I
can't you know half the things I've ever
done I couldn't imagine that I would
have done them you you if I don't know
30 years ago if you said to me there one
day they're gonna want you to play the
president United States primary colors
one day they're gonna want you to play a
very large woman in a musical
not even identifiable and you're gonna
help it make me a big hit and I like
being amused for I love I love people
shopping for their performance in their
writing like the other words are you
know what actor can I shop forth that
would fulfill as a muse my writing and
pull it off I love that I'm ambidextrous
enough to say okay yeah yeah I got a
lawyer here somewhere I got I got a
hitman here I've got president in the
back my pocket Oh even he had a very
large woman in the back of my thing I
love having that ability to service that
I don't normally ask people about legacy
I don't think a lot about legacy in my
own life do you think about legacy only
in the terms of simplicity like I don't
do we're people glad that you're alive
did you help them did you contribute to
life did you it was a was it worth your
stay here you know can you say that what
level it's at or how people interpret it
is really up to them but at the end of
the day you have to be able to say to
yourself did you achieve those things
and with me I have the good fortune of
people showing me right there in present
time what what I've done for them you
see so like like Jimmy Cagney must have
felt when I met him and I said I I just
love you and he started to cry as 80 80
years old and he started to cry and I
thought he's crying over my telling him
I loved him and we were out we're
friends for five years until his death I
get that a lot you know where people are
telling me what I mean to them so I'm a
I'll be a little bit of a fool if I
didn't take it to heart to some degree
and say it mattered
to them and I'd like to continue to
matter to them that keeps me going you
know you you because revelant being
relevant is is a is a subjective thing
you know you're always relevant it's how
you connect those points to continue to
be relevant and maybe you're relevant in
your own way maybe irrelevant and only a
certain audience is right it doesn't
matter you're connecting and you're
continuing gotta blabbered a lot this
nah man it's been nice no I don't want
to do because there's there's and I'm
asking this question in absolute
sincerity a first compliment you and
you're a very interested and lovely
person and you have very good questions
and they're very well thought-out
they're very smart and they're
thoughtful and I appreciate it a lot man
that's so meaningful and so kind and as
a student of filmmaking which is my
first love by the way is film I can see
that yeah I I have been moved by your
work it's it's astonished me it's
inspired me I mean it's really
incredible man like we were look it it
is hysterical I wish we had a camera
here pointing out people to see how many
[__] people are here watching this
we've never had this many people sit in
on an episode before thank you all right
man where can people see fanatic where
can they find out more about you where
do you want them to join you
well I mean the fanatics my latest
project they're very proud of it I think
it's one of the roles that I disappear
in the most that I've ever done
disappear Desna Edmund hairspray pretty
good and in primary colors that
disappeared pretty good but you know I
really feel like this is a very complete
performance and I I think it's also
entertaining it's a very entertaining
movie it's very original and unusual and
I like the idea that in this day and age
of film er we've had a hundred plus
years of it it's hard to find something
different to watch this is really
different this is
senator original movie like pulp fiction
was it won't have ever have the
commercial value of pulp fiction but
neither did I think that would when I
did it you know so but anyway I I'm
really really proud of it and I I was
very I got a Best Actor Award in Rome
for the performance and I was very proud
of that
out of the blue that it was recognized
and I thought wow this is so random that
this beautiful and a very important film
festival by the way acknowledged that
performance so it it it equaled what I
put into it
the be nice it was beautiful there do
you know definitely that's available on
the video on demand right now so people
can stream it what is the impact that
you want to have on the world I want it
to have been valuable that I was here
for people that I actually they're glad
I was alive that I helped somehow I was
valuable to them whether it got them
through a day a week a year a month
whatever I did I just want to my legacy
was that I made a difference and that
that's really it you know and
entertained at a big level which is what
I my intention always from a child was
to entertain that's why I had no problem
with arguing my dad about leaving to do
it I knew that was my destiny was to
entertain people and I had the tools so
that's probably you know all all that in
capsule I'll take Tommy you did such a
good job thank you so much for coming on
the show yeah absolutely I thank all of
you for
being here guys basically anything this
man touches you should be diving into
his Instagram is on point by the way
watch his entire film catalog you will
not be let down this is somebody who
always shows up performs of their best
absolutely amazing there's a reason that
this guy is an icon do you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care there's always another game so
take your game and ratchet it down just
a drop and you're going to have another
game and he was right I didn't listen to
that to me winning is everything